# 1 = 0.999...

## Theorem
The real number $1$ may be represented by $0.999\dots$ (where the infinite sequence of $9$'s are represented by $"\dots"$). That is, $0.999\dots = 1$.

## Definitions
We must work with the following definitions as tools for our proof.

### Limit of a Sequence

**Definition**. We call $x$ the limit of a sequence $(x_n)$, which is notated as

$$lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} = x,$$

if the following condition holds:
- For each real number $\varepsilon > 0$, there exists a natural number $N$ such that, for every natural number $n ≥ N$, we have $|x_n − x | < ε$.

### Least Upper Bound Property and the Real Numbers

Let $S$ be a non-empty set of real numbers.
- A real number $x$ is called an upper bound for $S$ if $x ≥ s$ for all $s ∈ S$.
- A real number $x$ is the least upper bound (or supremum) for $S$ if $x$ is an upper bound for $S$ and $x ≤ y$ for every upper bound $y$ of $S$.

Notably, each non-empty subset of real numbers that has an upper bound must have a least upper bound. The proof of this property is quite cumbersome, so we take it axiomatically here. See a textbook on real analysis for a formal proof of this property.

## Lemma
Before we prove our theorem, we must showcase an important property of the real numbers, the Archimedean Property.

### The Archimedean Property
**Lemma**. Let $a,b$ be real numbers. Suppose that $a > 0$. Then there is some natural number $n$ such that $b < na$.

*Proof*. In the case $b \le 0$, we simply choose $n=1$. It is immediately apparent $b \le 0 < 1 \cdot a = a$.

In the case $b > 0$, we proceed by proof by contradiction. Suppose that $na \le b$ for each natural number $n$. Let 

$$A = \set{ka | k \in \mathbb{N} \}.$$

Note that $A$ is non-empty as $a \in A$. Further, by our hypothesis, we know $b$ is an upper bound for $A$. Seeing that $A$ is a subset of the real numbers and bounded above, then there exists a least upper bound of $A$, notated as $\sup A$. We chose a natural number $m$ arbitrarily. We have $ma < \sup A$ and $(m + 1)a = ma + a < \sup A$. However, this then implies $ma < \sup A - a$, which means $\sup A - a$ is also an upper bound for $A$ as $m$ was chosen arbitrarily, but $\sup A - a < \sup A$. This, of course, contradicts $\sup A$ is the least upper bound of $A$.

## Proof
The infinite decimal representation of $0.999\dots$ is the infinite sum

$$0.999\dots = \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{9}{10^i} = \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}\sum_{i=1}^{n} \frac{9}{10^i}.$$

We evaluate the limit of this series by examining the limit of its partial sums as a sequence $(\sigma_n)$, where $\sigma_1 = 0.9$, $\sigma_2 = 0.99$, and so on. That is, we take $(\sigma_n) = (0.9, 0.99, 0.999, ...)$ and will show 

$$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \sigma_n = 1.$$

Let real $\varepsilon > 0$. If $\varepsilon \ge 1$, we set $N=1$ and see that for each $n \ge N$ we have 

$$|1-\sigma_n| = 1 - \sigma_n = \frac{1}{10^n} < 1 \le \varepsilon.$$

On the other hand, if $\varepsilon < 1$, then there exists a natural number $k$ such that $k\varepsilon > 1$ by the Archimedean Property of the real numbers. Given $10^k > k$, then $10^k\varepsilon > k\varepsilon > 1$ which implies 

$$\frac{1}{10^k} < \varepsilon.$$

We then set $N = k$. For each $n \ge N$, we have

$$|1-\sigma_n| = \frac{1}{10^n} \le \frac{1}{10^k} < \varepsilon.$$

